# Blackjack

Blackjack is a simple, popular card game that is played in many casinos. Cards in Blackjack have the following values: an ace may be valued as either 1 or 11 (player's choice), face cards (kings, queens and jacks) are valued at 10 and the value of the remaining cards corresponds to their number. During a round of Blackjack, the players plays against a dealer with the goal of building a hand (a collection of cards) whose cards have a total value that is higher than the value of the dealer's hand, but not over 21. Note that a round of Blackjack is also sometimes referred to as a hand.

The player and the dealer are each dealt two cards initially with one of the dealer's cards being dealt faced down. This is the dealer's hole card. The player may then ask for the dealer to repeatedly "hit" their hand by dealing them another card. If, at any point, the value of the player's hand exceeds 21, the player is "busted" and loses immediately. At any point prior to busting, the player may "stand" and the dealer will then hit their hand until the value of their hand is 17 or more. Note that for the dealer, aces count as 11 unless it causes the dealer's hand to bust. If the dealer busts, the player wins. Otherwise, the player and dealer then compare the values of their hands and the hand with the higher value wins. In this version of Blackjack, the dealer wins a tie.

Written in Python, this program makes use of classes, lists, tiled images, mouse input, and loops. It was submitted as a mini-project to Rice University's online course, Fundamentals of Computing Specialization, offered through [Coursera](https://www.coursera.org/specializations/fundamentalscomputing2).